README.md, before:

# Weather API

##### Author: Godfred Asamoah ([@rxgfred](https://github.com/rxgfred))

## Requirements
- [Node.js 18+ and npm](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)

## Local Setup

- Clone the repo
- Add the environment variables (e.g. in an `.env` file in the root directory) following the format in [.env.example](./.env.example)
- Install dependencies (`npm install`)
- Run `npm run start:dev` to start the server.
    ### Docker Setup
    - configure port, e.g.: `export PORT=8080`.
    - Build image: `docker build -t --build-arg PORT weather-api .`
    - Start container, specifying the env file as shown: `docker run -p $PORT:$PORT --env-file <your env file here> weather-api`

## Tests
- Tests have been included in the project. Run `npm test` from root directory to run them.

## Endpoint
Call using cURL:

```
curl --request POST \
--url http://localhost:8080/api/v1/weather \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
"city": "New York",
"date": "2024-09-11T09:11:00Z"
}'
```


## Features and design decisions
- Sane defaults have been provided for the configuration except for BASE_API_URL, which must be specified. See [config/index.ts](./src/config/index.ts).
- I do not perform any validation of the 'correctness' of the city (whether it is a real city or not).
- I combined the use of TTL (time-to-live) to ensure the freshness of data and LRU to manage space effectively in the cache implementation.
- I did not make the `retryCount` for calling the external API configurable. (partly to make the tests run as quickly as possible).
- Made use of an exponential backoff policy for calling the external API.
- Made use of an in-memory rate limiter. An external service like Redis would be better in a multi-instance setting.
- given the simplicity of the cache schema, I do not run separate migrations for it or make provisions for long-term persistence for the data (defaults to in-memory sqlite if not specified in environment variables, and we can drop and re-create the table as needed).

Commit message:

explanation for why POST over GET

README.md, after:

# Weather API

##### Author: Godfred Asamoah ([@rxgfred](https://github.com/rxgfred))

## Requirements
- [Node.js 18+ and npm](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)

## Local Setup

- Clone the repo
- Add the environment variables (e.g. in an `.env` file in the root directory) following the format in [.env.example](./.env.example)
- Install dependencies (`npm install`)
- Run `npm run start:dev` to start the server.
    ### Docker Setup
    - configure port, e.g.: `export PORT=8080`.
    - Build image: `docker build -t --build-arg PORT weather-api .`
    - Start container, specifying the env file as shown: `docker run -p $PORT:$PORT --env-file <your env file here> weather-api`

## Tests
- Tests have been included in the project. Run `npm test` from root directory to run them.

## Endpoint
Call using cURL:

```
curl --request POST \
--url http://localhost:8080/api/v1/weather \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
"city": "New York",
"date": "2024-09-11T09:11:00Z"
}'
```


## Features and design decisions
- Sane defaults have been provided for the configuration except for BASE_API_URL, which must be specified. See [config/index.ts](./src/config/index.ts).
- I do not perform any validation of the 'correctness' of the city (whether it is a real city or not).
- I chose POST over GET for the endpoint because:
  - the city name could be unreasonably long, exceeding the GET URL query string limitation. 
  - there's a potential side effect (due to our SQLite cache), and we want to avoid caching by the browser.
- I combined the use of TTL (time-to-live) to ensure the freshness of data and LRU to manage space effectively in the cache implementation.
- I did not make the `retryCount` for calling the external API configurable. (partly to make the tests run as quickly as possible).
- Made use of an exponential backoff policy for calling the external API.
- Made use of an in-memory rate limiter. An external service like Redis would be better in a multi-instance setting.
- given the simplicity of the cache schema, I do not run separate migrations for it or make provisions for long-term persistence for the data (defaults to in-memory sqlite if not specified in environment variables, and we can drop and re-create the table as needed).
